/* --------------------------------
 * INTRODUCTION:
 *
 * The Capitalist Manifesto
 * by Rockefeller Jefferson Marx
 *
 * -------------------------------- */


The world is broken and nobody knows what to do. The problems are so immense that it is impossible for anyone, or any group of people to write a prescription for all of the ailments because we still haven't gotten our tiny little heads around all of them at once. The world is broken because we are broken. Maybe we were always broken, since before the ice ages, the migrations, the plagues, the famines, the wars, the holocausts; broken waves beating against an endless shore.

We're in our infancy; toddlers beginning to grasp the nuances of cause and effect and collatoral damage. We live in a dynamic, fragile egg made of many fabrics, dyed in an countless wash of realities that mesh, repel, and vibrate like resonant tuning forks. The relief we seek from the human condition is temporary, the damage we do is permanent, and our grasp of the situation is tenuous.

We tried organizing principles like adolescents try drugs. The rigidity of religion, the fear of autocracy, the conformity of communism, the empty wages of captialism, the paved roads and imported goods of empire. Yet here we are at the precipice waiting for time to tell as the clock runs down. The landlord is coming for the rent, and she is pissed at us for wrecking the place.

People get together to talk about What Is Wrong. Some people want The Answer. Other people want The Revolution. Many people just want everyone to shut the fuck up so they can simply make it through the day. We feel we are strangers here; we have no fur to warm our skin, no fins to glide through the water, no wings to fly away. We have salt water in our veins but no gills to breathe it in. We are insignificant, vulnerable creatures equipped with a tiny gas tank and the violence of the mind. And what stunning violence we have wrought.

We get together and congratulate ourselves for bringing charity to nations we previously brought to their knees. We tell ourselves that technology can be Used For Good. We opine how business brings freedom to the masses. We fret at our suicide pact with global warming. We are caught in the golden slumber of capitalism and technology. We got to 5 billion people in the world because of technology and we worship at its temple daily -- food security, medicine, communication, transportation.

Our government and business leaders beat the drum: We will use existing business and civic institutions to reinvent the world. Media mavens, UN delegates, railroad tycoons, entrepreneurs, charity givers, office holders, proletarians, propagandists, soldiers, police, rebels; we all want to Do Good Works. The truth is: We have no idea how.

Technology promised to free us from the slavery of manual labor so we married it without reading the pre-nup; we bit into the apple before tasting its poison. Now we wonder where our jobs went and why we don't have flying cars fueled by kitchen scraps. We blindly grovel with fate and promise to tweak the system, to balance the injustices with works of charity, to eat "organic" food, to drive our cars a little less, to earn more than we spend, to give more than we take.

We meander to and fro and pretend we have options; we play at omnipotence in malls and airports and the internet; at night we dream of future wealth that will blot out the indignity of the tiny exit called Death. When we balance our fate with our children's inheritance, we skim off the top while they sleep.  We want more and more and more, like restless roving hungry beasts upon the savannah. We pray that it will all work out for the best and imagine that it might when Someone Else fixes it. Because we are primitive, fragile, broken creatures, we we find ourselves frozen in these delusions.

Communism told us the root of all evil is money. Capitalism told us that money is just a medium of exchange. They both told us the other was Wrong. The truth is that they both failed all of us in the collective quest for spiritual, social, and material security. Thomas Jefferson pointed out that all systems inevitably hurtle through time towards corruption in a sort of unavoidable entropy. The new measure of a system must be how well its internal mechanisms are set up to withstand this entropy, this gradual decline into chaos brought into being by the destructive cyclone of human frailty (greed) that inevitably grasps the wheels of power.

The entropy of Communism left us with Not Enough. The entropy of Capitalism left us with the poison fruit of Too Much. The most progressive systems we've seen balance the motivation of individual striving while using the fruits of material gains for communal access to basic dignities such as food and medicine. Over time, we have become wise to the idea that the delicious Free Market of Capitalism doesn't always cover all the costs it incurs on society, and that the collective harm incurred by those unpaid debts are injurous enough that the system must be tweaked to balance those out. These invisible, unpaid debts due society and the planet itself are the inflection points that must be brought into awareness and managed skillfully. These are the emerging values from which a new system must be forged if we are to survive.

The underpinnings of the 21st century globalist, technological planet within which all earthly beings find themselves (whether by choice or the opposite) is the naked, calcified fossil of Industrial Revolution Capitalism.

This is the story of how we throw off that rotted corpse and find ourselves again.








